Title: Bedrock Linux
Nav:   home.nav

Bedrock Linux
=============

Bedrock Linux is a Linux distribution created with the aim of making most of
the (often seemingly mutually-exclusive) benefits of various other Linux
distributions available simultaneously and transparently.

If one would like a rock-solid stable base (for example, from Debian or a RHEL
clone) yet still have easy access to cutting-edge packages (from, say, Arch
Linux), automate compiling packages with Gentoo's portage, and ensure that
software aimed only for the ever popular Ubuntu will run smoothly - all at the
same time, in the same distribution - Bedrock Linux will provide a means to
achieve this.  [Watch a
demonstration](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MuYMBCcgs98) or
[two](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOXGE_oV4XU) and read the
[introduction](introduction.html) and [FAQ](faq.html) for more.

## {id="colug-slides"} Columbus Linux User Group presentation
<small>2014-11-20</small>

Slides from a presentation on Bedrock Linux to the Columbus Linux User Group on
2014-11-19 are available [here](media/bedrocklinux-colug.pdf).

## {id="nyla-plans"} Bedrock Linux 1.0beta2 Nyla Plans
<small>2014-06-28</small>

The design plans for the upcoming release of Bedrock Linux, 1.0beta2 Nyla, are
available [here](1.0beta2/plans.html).

## {id="hawky-release"} Bedrock Linux 1.0beta1 Hawky Released
<small>2014-06-17</small>

The first beta of Bedrock Linux, 1.0beta1 Hawky, has been released.
See a demonstration video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOXGE_oV4XU),
the high-level changelog [here](1.0beta1/changelog.html) and the installation
instructions [here](1.0beta1/install.html).

## {id="hawky-plans"} Bedrock Linux 1.0beta1 Hawky Plans and release date.
<small>2014-06-11</small>

The plans for Bedrock Linux 1.0beta1 Hawky are available
[here](http://bedrocklinux.org/1.0beta1/plans.html).  This release is planned
for July 1st, 2014.

[See older news items](news.html)
